# Corner Shop

---

# General information
A corner shop requires a system to display their items with their respective 
prices and also calculate the net income for the month.\
This practical project was built based on the instructions of the first 
java project provided by the Hyperskill platform. 
The project should be divided into three stages: 
   1. Display items with their respective prices.
   2. Display the total revenue.
   3. Display the net income. 

Each stage have a specific output format that we need to follow.

## Project Requirements and Structure

### First stage
The system must display the product catalog. It is necessary to 
match the following output format exactly:
```
Prices:
Bubblegum: $2.00
Toffee: $0.20
Ice cream: $5.00
Milk chocolate: $4.00
Doughnut: $2.50
Pancake: $3.20
```

### Second stage
The system must calculate and display the total monthly income 
based on the sales data below:
```
Earned amount:
Bubblegum: $202.00
Toffee: $118.00
Ice cream: $2250.00
Milk chocolate: $1680.00
Doughnut: $1075.00
Pancake: $80.00

Income: $5405.0
```

### Third stage Output Format
The system must calculate the net income after deducting staff 
expenses and other operational costs from the total revenue. 
These expenses are provided dynamically via user input.
```
Earned amount:
Bubblegum: $202.00
Toffee: $118.00
Ice cream: $2250.00
Milk chocolate: $1680.00
Doughnut: $1075.00
Pancake: $80.00

Income: $5405.0
Staff expenses:
> 200
Other expenses:
> 400
Net income: $4805.0
```

# Personal approach
To provide some context: I am developing this project as an initial step to re-learn Java 
from the basics. Therefore, my approach relies strictly on core programming concepts,
such as arrays, loops and methods, rather than an Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) design. 
While, this might not be the most scalable structure, it successfully achieves my goal of 
build a solid foundation in Java syntax.

## Explanation of the solution
Three parallel arrays were created to store the information provided by the 
instructions:

1. `ITEMS`: Store the name of each product.
2. `PRICES`: Store the price of each product.
3. `MONTH_INCOME`: Store the monthly revenue generated by each product.

The arrays are synchronized by index: The product at `ITEMS[n]` corresponds
to the price at `PRICES[n]` and the income at `MONTH_INCOME[n]`.

The first two stages have a very similar output format. For this reason, I
created a method called `displayItemsWithMoney(String[], double[])` which
displays each item with its respective price (first stage) or 
monthly income (second stage) according to the output format.

For the first stage, the method `displayItemsWithMoney(String[], double[])`
was used in the main function. The arrays `ITEMS` and `PRICES` were passed
to the method to display the information. 

For the second stage, the method `double calculateTotalRevenue(double[])`
returns the sum of the items in the array passed as a parameter. In the main
function, the array `MONTH_INCOME` was passed to the method to obtain the
total revenue for the month.

For the third stage, the method `double calculateNetIncome(double)` returns 
the difference between the total revenue and the total expenses. The 
total expenses are calculated as the sum of the staff expenses and other
expenses. These two values are obtained from user input using
`Scanner`. In the main function, the total revenue calculated in the
second stage was passed to `calculateNetIncome(double)` method to return
the net income.
